---
title: Guide
description: Learn structure of Fusion and contribution guide.
navigation:
    icon: false
---

Please help contribute to Fusion! We need a lot of help, especially on the React side, and perhaps JavaScript/TypeScript generally. To start contributing, you can clone this repository. We have everything you need in this single repo.

## Structure
The structure of this repo is as follows:

- `/`: at the root of the repo is the Laravel package. You will find most of the source in `src` and some tests in `tests`. We need more tests!
- `/packages/*`: in the `packages` directory, you'll find framework-specific JavaScript packages. These are shipped with the Laravel package, and are not published to NPM. This makes it easy to keep everything in sync.
- `/apps/*`: in the `apps` directory you'll find full-on Laravel applications, with their own `composer.jsons` and `package.jsons`. There is a readme in the `apps` directory that explains more about how those apps are set up.
- `.github/workflows`: in the `workflows` directory you'll find the CI workflows that test the PHP library, the JS packages, and the sample apps.

## Laravel tests
You may run the Laravel tests with the following command:

:::prose-pre
---
code: ./vendor/bin/phpunit
filename: Terminal
---
./vendor/bin/phpunit
:::

## Vue package tests
You may run the Vue package tests with the following commands:

:::prose-pre
---
code: cd packages/vue && npm run test
filename: Terminal
---
cd packages/vue
npm run test
:::

## Vue app tests
You may run all of the Playwright (browser) tests with the following commands:

:::prose-pre
---
code: cd apps/vue && npm run test
filename: Terminal
---
cd apps/vue
npm run test
:::

If you want to run the tests while you are working, you may run `npm run test:watch`. This will start `npm run dev` and also open Playwright in "UI mode" where you can interact with your tests.

### The `<script test>` block
In the `apps/vue` project, you can write a single file component that contains a `<script test>` block and that will be extracted to a playwright test.
```vue
<php>
  new class {
    public string $name = 'Aaron';
  }
</php>

<template>
  Hello {{ name }}
</template>

<script test>
  import { test } from '@pw/playwright.extension.js'

  /**
   * @param {{ fusion: import('./FusionPage.js').FusionPage }} fixtures
   */
  test('sees data', async ({fusion}) => {
    await fusion.visit();
    await fusion.see('Aaron');
  });
</script>
```

We have provided a few Playwright helpers in the form of the `FusionPage.js`. Feel free to add any helpers to that class. It is also a proxy to the Playwright `page` class.

`fusion.visit()` will visit the component that you are currently working on in the browser. You do not have to use `fusion.visit()`, especially if you're working with route model binding components that have different URLs.

`fusion.see` is a shorthand to assert that this text is in the body element.

## Credits
All Fusion artwork was designed by [Will King](https://x.com/wking__){target="_blank"}

Fusion was named by [Josh Cirre](https://x.com/joshcirre){target="_blank"}! It had a much worse working name, which is so bad I won't share it.
