---
title: Calling actions
description: Learn how to name and call actions.
navigation:
    icon: false
---

Every public method that you define on the backend becomes a function that you can call on the frontend. For example, if you define a `favorite` method on the backend, in your JavaScript you now have a `favorite` function.

In procedural PHP:
```php
expose(favorite: function() {
    // This is available on the frontend.
})
```
And class-based:
```php
new class {
    public function favorite()
    {
        // This is available.
    }
}
```
You could now call this in your JavaScript by just calling the favorite function.
```vue
<template>
  <button @click='favorite'>Favorite</button>
</template>
```
Of course you could import this function and use it in any way that you want.
```vue
<script setup>
  import { useFusion } from "$fusion/Pages/Hello.js";

  const { favorite } = useFusion(['favorite']);
</script>
```
Every Fusion function is actually a proxy object that contains status about the function's state. For example, you may use `favorite.processing` to see if the request is currently in-flight.
```vue
<template>
  <button @click='favorite'>Favorite</button>
  <div v-if='favorite.processing'>
    Loading...
  </div>
</template>
```
The following properties are available on the function:
```vue
const status = reactive({
  processing: false,

  failed: false,
  recentlyFailed: false,

  succeeded: false,
  recentlySucceeded: false,

  finished: false,
  recentlyFinished: false,

  error: null,
  errors: [],
});
```

::tip
You can see more about how this works by looking at the `packages/vue/ActionFactory.js` file.
::

You'll notice that the status object is a reactive object. This means that you are free to put these properties in your template and they will work just like other Vue state.

If you want to get the entire status object, you may call `favorite.getStatus()`. This may prove useful if you are importing the function into one of your script tags and want to use the status as a standalone object.

Here is what the individual properties on the status object represent:

::card-group{class="grid grid-cols-1 sm:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-5 my-5 *:my-0"}

:::card
---
title: processing
---
The request is currently in flight
:::

:::card
---
title: failed
---
The request failed
:::

:::card
---
title: recentlyFailed
---
This is the same logic as `failed`, but after 3.5 seconds it turns itself back to false. Useful for flash messages
:::

:::card
---
title: succeeded
---
The request was successful
:::

:::card
---
title: recentlySucceeded
---
This is the same logic as `succeeded`, but after 3.5 seconds it turns itself back to false. Useful for flash messages
:::

:::card
---
title: finished
---
The request finished, regardless of success or failure
:::

:::card
---
title: recentlyFinished
---
This is the same logic as `finished`, but after 3.5 seconds it turns itself back to false. Useful for flash messages
:::

:::card
---
title: error
---
If Laravel returns a 422 response, the error bag is present in this property
:::

:::card
---
title: errors
---
If Laravel returns a 422 response, the error message is present in this property
:::

::

::u-alert
---
color: info
icon: i-simple-line-icons:info
variant: subtle
title: Important
---
#description
Do you have ideas for other state that would be helpful? Open an issue and let me know!
::
