---
title: Syncing state
description: Learn how sync state with the server.
navigation:
    icon: false
---

Fusion does not automatically sync state back to the server. So if you add a `v-model` to a piece of state that came from the server, we do not make any requests as the value changes.

Fusion does sync state whenever you call an action.

Anytime you call an action that has been provided by Fusion, we will gather up the current values of all the state that Fusion has defined, and send that to the backend. All of your state will be instantiated on the backend before your function is run. Then in your function, you're able to reference the state as you normally would in PHP.

When a request is made to Fusion, here is the order of operations:

- Fusion finds the right PHP class, based on the component.
- Fusion initializes the page's state, if the frontend has sent anything.
- Fusion initializes state from the querystring, if there is any.
- Fusion mounts the page, running the mount function if present, or auto-binding properties from the route if applicable.
- Fusion runs either the page handler, or the method you called from the frontend.
- Fusion returns the response.

When the frontend receives the response, here is the order of operations:

- Fusion pulls the state out of the response.
- Fusion updates the state in your component.
- The response is modified such that only the response from the action remains.
- If the response is a 422, the errors and error properties are updated.
- Other reactive state on the function is updated.
